okay ladies here is Rapunzel she is
ready to go I have my half of my hand
towel already looped in I'm using
tearaway a lot of ladies have had
success using the cutaway say a
stabilizer instead your choice I am
using fleece for the face fleece for the
hair and I'm using heat bond on the back
like I said you can use heat bond keep
on light you can use nothing other
ladies have used Pelin interfacing
pretty much it is your choice of what
you want to do on the back of your
fabric those are just four examples of
what you can use so she's already ready
on my machine the first step is her hair
stitch out so I actually put the face
that's the wrong color so I'm gonna grab
my yellow fleece which I already have my
heat bond on the back I'm gonna peel it
off it will come off and yes I keep onto
the back of police I had no problem with
it burning or or anything like that with
my iron so my heat bonds on we're gonna
stick her up inside of the machine on
top of my head now somebody's have asked
me how do I get the hood so perfectly
matched without putting a placement
stitch on my hoop and there are probably
on other people's hoops there are these
little marks that tell you your field of
embroidery so I just make sure to line
up my my towel on those lines and I make
sure that my design is all the way to
the bottom of my embroidery field so as
long as my towel is lined up on those
lines on both sides and I have my design
all the way to the bottom of the
embroidery field I'm good so I'm going
to stitch out her hair and
I will be back in just a moment all
right so I finished stitching out our
hair it stitch around it twice and I
have trimmed it all out I'm the next
step of course is her face so again we
put the fleece down with over top of it
and stitch it out and then I will cut it
and be back in just a moment all right
so I stitched through her face twice and
I have trimmed it all off and it is
ready to go the next step is going to be
the satin stitch of her face and her
ears so it's gonna do that
um and her eyes and her eyebrows and
then I will be back after it finishes
doing that so she just finished tucking
our stitching out her face her eyes her
eyebrows and now it's getting ready to
do her braid tack down which is down
right here the tack down will go like
all the other ones from right here the
edge of her ear all the way out to the
edge of the yellow you want to cut your
fabric an inch and a half wide so like
just like Elsa just like Anna you want
to stick your fabric down in there and
make sure it's not overlapping the satin
stitches on this side and make sure it's
not overlapping on the other side so you
stick it in there and it'll tuck down
twice it does a placement stitch if you
want to use the placement stitch or you
can just tack it in place twice and then
it's going to stitch around her hair and
do the flowers in her hair and then I'll
be right back and show you how to braid
it okay so I just finished tacking down
her braids in the place and I actually
want a little wider down here past where
it stitches so I'm gonna actually just
diagonal it across to make it so that
she has a thicker braid down below
because in the movie she has a really
really thick braid cuz she has so much
hair so now I'm just going to to
along the stitch line get as close as I
possibly can
so that when it does the satin stitching
for the hair which is going to do next
it will set and stitch right across the
braid to tuck it in place
and then like I said I'll be doing the
the flowers next